# Understanding Ethical Hacking
Code of ethics: https://www.eccouncil.org/code-of-ethics/

## Fundamentals of Information Security  
### Authenticity
Users needs to prove their identity and their claim to access the resources. 
### Integrity
...
### Availability
...
### Confidentiality
...
### Non-Repudiation
...

## Types of Attacks

### Passive Attacks
In Passive (sniffing or Eavesdropping), attacks, attackers listen to the traffic.

### Active Attacks
Attackers usually exploit a vulnerability or cause harm to the system like disrupting the communication. We can mention attack like, **DOS**, **Man-in-the-middle**, **session hijacking** and **SQL injection** attacks.

### Close-in Attacks
Attackers are usually close to the target. we can mention attacks like, **Shoulder surfing**, **dumpster diving** and also social engineering.

### Insider attacks
These attack come from the inside the organization.<br>
These attacks can be done by, stealing physical devices, planting malware, using backdoors and keylogger.

### Distribution attacks
The attackers, temper a software or hardware at its source before the installation.

## Cyber Kill Chain Methodology 

### Reconnaissance 
Gathering information about the victim. information like, network and system information.<br>
Attackers are **passive** in this step.

### Weaponization
Going through gathered information and identify the vulnerabilities and prepare the tools and the payload. 

### Delivery
Delivering the payload via email, link, usb drop, etc.

### Exploitation
Somebody runs the delivered payload. 

### Installation
Installing the malicious payload.

### Command and Control phase
Creating a two way channel between attacker and victim system.

### Action on Objectives
Start stealing data or harming the victim's system. The victim system can also be used as a lunching point to perform other attacks to other victims.

---
## Types of hackers

### Black Hats
Black hat hackers are individuals who exploit computer systems, networks, or software for malicious purposes. Unlike white hat hackers, who work to improve security, black hat hackers engage in activities that are illegal and unethical.
### White Hats
White hat hackers, also known as ethical hackers, are individuals who use their hacking skills for lawful and constructive purposes. Their primary goal is to improve the security of systems, networks, and applications by identifying and fixing vulnerabilities.
### Gray Hats
Gray hat hackers are individuals who operate in the gray area between ethical (white hat) and unethical (black hat) hacking. Their actions can be both beneficial and harmful, and they often do not follow strict ethical guidelines.
### Suicide Hackers
Suicide hackers are individuals who carry out cyber attacks with the intention of causing significant harm or disruption, often without regard for the consequences to themselves. Unlike most hackers who aim to avoid detection and potential legal repercussions, suicide hackers are typically motivated by a cause, ideology, or a desire for revenge, and they accept or even anticipate being caught.
### Script Kiddies
Script kiddies are individuals, usually with limited technical skills and knowledge, who use pre-written scripts or programs developed by others to carry out hacking activities or cyber attacks. They typically lack a deep understanding of the underlying technology or the intricate workings of the software.

### Spy Hackers, Cyber Terrorists and State Sponsored Hackers
Spy hackers, also known as cyber-terrorists or state-sponsored hackers, are individuals or groups that engage in cyber activities with the backing or support of nation-states, or driven by ideological, political, or military goals. These hackers are typically well-resourced and highly skilled.<br>
Spy hackers could be hired by rival business and other individuals to steal intellectual properties. <br>
Stated Sponsored hackers are hired by governments to obtain information from other countries. 

---

## Hacktivism
Hacktivism is a form of activism that uses hacking techniques to promote political, social, or ideological causes. Hacktivists leverage their technical skills to challenge, criticize, or disrupt systems they perceive as unjust, corrupt, or oppressive.
We can refer to **Anonymous**, **LulzSec** and **WikiLeaks** groups as an example.

## Hacking Definition

Exploiting a systems vulnerabilities and security controls to gain access to system resources and features, outside the creator's original purpose.<br>

---

## The Attack Phases

### Reconnaissance
...
#### Passive
No direct interaction with the target.
#### Active
Direct interaction with the target.
### Scanning
### Gaining Access
### Maintaining Access
### Clearing Tracks

---

## Levels of Defense
### Policies, Processes and Awareness
### Physical
### Perimeter
### Network
### Host
### Application
### Data
---


## Risk Levels
### Extreme 
### High
### Medium
### Low

TODO: remember to add the risk matrix.
---

## The Incident Handling and Response (IH&R) Process
1. Prepare for Event Handling and Reaction.
2. Incident Recording and Assignment
3. Triage
4. Notification
5. Containment
6. Forensic Examination
7. Eradication
8. Recovery
9. Post-incident Actions

---


## Standards and Rules
### Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)
...
### ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Standard
...
### Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPPA)
...
### Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX)
- Title I: Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB)
- Title II: Auditor Independence
- Title III: Corporate Responsibility
- Title IV: Enhanced Financial Disclosures
- Title V: Analyst Conflicts of Interest
- Title VI: Commission Resources and Authority 
- Title VII: Studies and Reports
- Title VIII: Corporate and Criminal Fraud Accountability
- Title IX: White Collar Crime Penalty Enhancement
- Title X: Corporate Tax Returns
- Title XI: Corporate Fraud Accountability

### Legal Regulation in Federal Level (United States)
- Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA)
- Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA)

### Legal Regulation in Global Level
- General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) (EU)
- Data Protection Act (DPA) (UK)


